README.md, before:

# mustache.js for Chrome Apps — Logic-less {{mustache}} templates with JavaScript that work under the CSP.

## What is this?

A special build of [mustache.js](https://github.com/janl/mustache.js) (by [@janl](https://github.com/janl)) which works within the security policies defined by
the Google Chrome Apps/Extensions [Content Security Policy](http://code.google.com/chrome/extensions/contentSecurityPolicy.html). 

In CSP, inline JavaScript as well as potentially harmful string-to-JS methods such as `eval` are not executed. Whilst great for security, this also means that it can be a challenge finding a popular templating engine which doesn't use features disabled by the policy. 

This version of mustache works fine under the CSP and has been used with frameworks such as Backbone.js within Chrome Apps without any issues.

## What alternatives are available that work with Chrome Apps?

* Pre-compiling your templates. [Handlebars](http://handlebarsjs.com/) offers this feature and Matthew Robertson has a good [post](http://matthewrobertson.org/blog/2012/07/10/javascript-templates-and-chromes-content-security-policy/) which outlines a strategy for pre-compiling templates that works with CSP. Note that with `manifest_version: 2`, you must use precompilation if opting for handlebars. If you try to use `Handlebars.compile()` you will get an error about CSP error violations.

* [Closure Templates](https://developers.google.com/closure/templates/) is a templating library which also doesn't not use `eval`. Templates are simply compiled to JavaScript ahead of time, so that what gets included 
in your app is a plain .js file that should not run into CSP issues.

* [Ashe](https://github.com/dfsq/Ashe) is a lightweight templating library which supports variable replacement, loops, conditions and new variables inline. It uses neither `eval` nor `new Function`

* [Distal](http://code.google.com/p/distal/) is another templating library free of `eval`

* [Sandboxing eval](http://code.google.com/chrome/extensions/trunk/sandboxingEval.html). You have the option to use `eval` and `new Function` inside a sandboxed iframe. e.g, in the manifest one could do:

```javascript
"sandbox": {
    "pages": [
      "pageA.html",
      "app/pageB.html"
    ]
},
```
Sandboxed pages don't have extensions, app APIs or access to pages which are non-sandboxed, but can communicate
with them using `postMessage()`. See [this example](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/chrome-app-samples/tree/master/sandbox) which demonstrates circumventing the problem. This example compiles Handlebar templates in a sandboxed iframe and returns the generated HTML to the caller page.

> What could be more logical awesome than no logic at all?

[mustache.js](http://github.com/janl/mustache.js) is an implementation of the
[Mustache](http://mustache.github.com/) templating system in JavaScript.

[Mustache](http://mustache.github.com/) is a logic-less template syntax. It can
be used for HTML, config files, source code - anything. It works by expanding
tags in a template using values provided in a hash or object.

We call it "logic-less" because there are no if statements, else clauses, or for
loops. Instead there are only tags. Some tags are replaced with a value, some
nothing, and others a series of values.

For a language-agnostic overview of Mustache's template syntax, see the
`mustache(5)` [manpage](http://mustache.github.com/mustache.5.html).

## Where to use mustache.js?

You can use mustache.js to render templates in many various scenarios where you
can use JavaScript. For example, you can render templates in a browser,
server-side using [node](http://nodejs.org/), in [CouchDB](http://couchdb.apache.org/)
views, or in almost any other environment where you can use JavaScript.

## Who uses mustache.js?

An updated list of mustache.js users is kept [on the Github wiki](http://wiki.github.com/janl/mustache.js/beard-competition).
Add yourself or your company if you use mustache.js!

## Usage

Below is quick example how to use mustache.js:

    var view = {
      title: "Joe",
      calc: function() {
        return 2 + 4;
      }
    };

    var html = Mustache.to_html("{{title}} spends {{calc}}", view);

In this example, the `Mustache.to_html` function takes two parameters: 1) the
[mustache](http://mustache.github.com/) template and 2) a `view` object that
contains the data and code needed to render the template.


## Template Tag Types

There are several types of tags currently implemented in mustache.js.

### Simple Tags

Tags are always surrounded by mustaches like this `{{foobar}}`.

    var view = {name: "Joe", say_hello: function(){ return "hello" }}

    template = "{{say_hello}}, {{name}}"

#### Accessing values in nested objects (Dot Notation)

To access data logically grouped into nested objects, specify a '.' delimited
path to the value.

    var contact = {
      name: {first: "Bill", last: "Bobitybob" },
      age: 37
    }

    template = "Hello, {{name.first}} {{name.last}}. You are {{age}} years old."

*NOTICE*: The dot notation feature was recently implemented for the 0.4
  release, which is not out as of Nov 9 2011. You can find the feature in the
  current master branch of mustachejs.

### Conditional Sections

Conditional sections begin with `{{#condition}}` and end with
`{{/condition}}`. When `condition` evaluates to true, the section is rendered,
otherwise the whole block will output nothing at all. `condition` may be a
function returning true/false or a simple boolean.

    var view = {condition: function() {
      // [...your code goes here...]
      return true;
    }}

    {{#condition}}
      I will be visible if condition is true
    {{/condition}}


### Enumerable Sections

Enumerable Sections use the same syntax as condition sections do.
`{{#shopping_items}}` and `{{/shopping_items}}`. Actually the view decides how
mustache.js renders the section. If the view returns an array, it will
iterator over the items. Use `{{.}}` to access the current item inside the
enumeration section.

    var view = {name: "Joe's shopping card",
                items: ["bananas", "apples"]}

    var template = "{{name}}: <ul> {{#items}}<li>{{.}}</li>{{/items}} </ul>"

    Outputs:
    Joe's shopping card: <ul><li>bananas</li><li>apples</li></ul>


### Higher Order Sections

If a section key returns a function, it will be called and passed both the
unrendered block of text and a renderer convenience function.

Given this object:

    "name": "Tater",
    "bolder": function() {
      return function(text, render) {
        return "<b>" + render(text) + '</b>'
      }
    }

And this template:

    {{#bolder}}Hi {{name}}.{{/bolder}}

We'll get this output:

    <b>Hi Tater.</b>

As you can see, we’re pre-processing the text in the block. This can be used
to implement caching, filters (like syntax highlighting), etc.

You can use `this.name` to access the attribute `name` from your view.

### Dereferencing Sections

If your data has components that are logically grouped into nested objects,
you may wish to dereference an object to access its values.

Given this object:

    {
      "name": "Bill",
      "address": {
        "street": "801 Streetly street",
        "city": "Boston",
        "state": "MA",
        "zip" "02101"
      }
    }

And this template:

    <h1>Contact: {{name}}</h1>
    {{#address}}
      <p>{{street}}</p>
      <p>{{city}}, {{state}} {{zip}}</p>
    {{/address}}

We'll get this output:

    <h1>Contact: Bill</h1>
      <p>801 Streetly street</p>
      <p>Boston, MA 02101</p>

### Inverted Sections

An inverted section opens with `{{^section}}` instead of `{{#section}}` and
uses a boolean negative to evaluate. Empty arrays are considered falsy.

View:

    var inverted_section =  {
      "repo": []
    }

Template:

    {{#repo}}<b>{{name}}</b>{{/repo}}
    {{^repo}}No repos :({{/repo}}

Result:

    No repos :(


### View Partials

mustache.js supports a quite powerful but yet simple view partial mechanism.
Use the following syntax for partials: `{{>partial_name}}`

    var view = {
      name: "Joe",
      winnings: {
        value: 1000,
        taxed_value: function() {
            return this.value - (this.value * 0.4);
        }
      }
    };

    var template = "Welcome, {{name}}! {{>winnings}}"
    var partials = {
      winnings: "You just won ${{value}} (which is ${{taxed_value}} after tax)"};

    var output = Mustache.to_html(template, view, partials)

    output will be:
    Welcome, Joe! You just won $1000 (which is $600 after tax)

You invoke a partial with `{{>winnings}}`. Invoking the partial `winnings`
will tell mustache.js to look for a object in the context's property
`winnings`. It will then use that object as the context for the template found
in `partials` for `winnings`.

## Escaping

mustache.js does escape all values when using the standard double mustache
syntax. Characters which will be escaped: `& \ " ' < >`. To disable escaping,
simply use triple mustaches like `{{{unescaped_variable}}}`.

Example: Using `{{variable}}` inside a template for `5 > 2` will result in `5 &gt; 2`, where as the usage of `{{{variable}}}` will result in `5 > 2`.


## Streaming

To stream template results out of mustache.js, you can pass an optional
`send()` callback to the `to_html()` call:

    Mustache.to_html(template, view, partials, function(line) {
      print(line);
    });


## Pragmas

Pragma tags let you alter the behaviour of mustache.js. They have the format
of

    {{%PRAGMANAME}}

and they accept options:

    {{%PRAGMANAME option=value}}


### IMPLICIT-ITERATOR

When using a block to iterate over an enumerable (Array), mustache.js expects
an objects as enumerable items. The implicit iterator pragma enables optional
behaviour of allowing literals as enumerable items. Consider this view:

    var view = {
      foo: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, "french"]
    };

The following template can iterate over the member `foo`:

    {{%IMPLICIT-ITERATOR}}
    {{#foo}}
      {{.}}
    {{/foo}}

If you don't like the dot in there, the pragma accepts an option to set your
own iteration marker:

    {{%IMPLICIT-ITERATOR iterator=bob}}
    {{#foo}}
      {{bob}}
    {{/foo}}

## Plugins for JavaScript Libraries

mustache.js may be built specifically for several different client libraries
and platforms, including the following:

  - [node](http://nodejs.org/) (or other CommonJS platforms)
  - [jQuery](http://jquery.com/)
  - [Dojo](http://www.dojotoolkit.org/)
  - [YUI](http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/)
  - [RequireJS](http://requirejs.org/)
  - [qooxdoo](http://qooxdoo.org/)

These may be built using [Rake](http://rake.rubyforge.org/) and one of the
following commands:

    $ rake commonjs
    $ rake jquery
    $ rake dojo
    $ rake yui
    $ rake requirejs
    $ rake qooxdoo

## Thanks

Mustache.js wouldn't kick ass if it weren't for these fine souls:

  * Chris Wanstrath / defunkt
  * Alexander Lang / langalex
  * Sebastian Cohnen / tisba
  * J Chris Anderson / jchris
  * Tom Robinson / tlrobinson
  * Aaron Quint / quirkey
  * Douglas Crockford
  * Nikita Vasilyev / NV
  * Elise Wood / glytch
  * Damien Mathieu / dmathieu
  * Jakub Kuźma / qoobaa
  * Will Leinweber / will
  * dpree
  * Jason Smith / jhs
  * Aaron Gibralter / agibralter
  * Ross Boucher / boucher
  * Matt Sanford / mzsanford
  * Ben Cherry / bcherry
  * Michael Jackson / mjijackson

Commit message:

updates readme for browserify support

README.md, after:

# mustache.js for Chrome Apps — Logic-less {{mustache}} templates with JavaScript that work under the CSP.

## What is this?

A special build of [mustache.js](https://github.com/janl/mustache.js) (by [@janl](https://github.com/janl)) which works within the security policies defined by
the Google Chrome Apps/Extensions [Content Security Policy](http://code.google.com/chrome/extensions/contentSecurityPolicy.html). 

In CSP, inline JavaScript as well as potentially harmful string-to-JS methods such as `eval` are not executed. Whilst great for security, this also means that it can be a challenge finding a popular templating engine which doesn't use features disabled by the policy. 

This version of mustache works fine under the CSP and has been used with frameworks such as Backbone.js within Chrome Apps without any issues.

## What alternatives are available that work with Chrome Apps?

* Pre-compiling your templates. [Handlebars](http://handlebarsjs.com/) offers this feature and Matthew Robertson has a good [post](http://matthewrobertson.org/blog/2012/07/10/javascript-templates-and-chromes-content-security-policy/) which outlines a strategy for pre-compiling templates that works with CSP. Note that with `manifest_version: 2`, you must use precompilation if opting for handlebars. If you try to use `Handlebars.compile()` you will get an error about CSP error violations.

* [Closure Templates](https://developers.google.com/closure/templates/) is a templating library which also doesn't not use `eval`. Templates are simply compiled to JavaScript ahead of time, so that what gets included 
in your app is a plain .js file that should not run into CSP issues.

* [Ashe](https://github.com/dfsq/Ashe) is a lightweight templating library which supports variable replacement, loops, conditions and new variables inline. It uses neither `eval` nor `new Function`

* [Distal](http://code.google.com/p/distal/) is another templating library free of `eval`

* [Sandboxing eval](http://code.google.com/chrome/extensions/trunk/sandboxingEval.html). You have the option to use `eval` and `new Function` inside a sandboxed iframe. e.g, in the manifest one could do:

```javascript
"sandbox": {
    "pages": [
      "pageA.html",
      "app/pageB.html"
    ]
},
```
Sandboxed pages don't have extensions, app APIs or access to pages which are non-sandboxed, but can communicate
with them using `postMessage()`. See [this example](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/chrome-app-samples/tree/master/sandbox) which demonstrates circumventing the problem. This example compiles Handlebar templates in a sandboxed iframe and returns the generated HTML to the caller page.

> What could be more logical awesome than no logic at all?

[mustache.js](http://github.com/janl/mustache.js) is an implementation of the
[Mustache](http://mustache.github.com/) templating system in JavaScript.

[Mustache](http://mustache.github.com/) is a logic-less template syntax. It can
be used for HTML, config files, source code - anything. It works by expanding
tags in a template using values provided in a hash or object.

We call it "logic-less" because there are no if statements, else clauses, or for
loops. Instead there are only tags. Some tags are replaced with a value, some
nothing, and others a series of values.

For a language-agnostic overview of Mustache's template syntax, see the
`mustache(5)` [manpage](http://mustache.github.com/mustache.5.html).

## Where to use mustache.js?

You can use mustache.js to render templates in many various scenarios where you
can use JavaScript. For example, you can render templates in a browser,
server-side using [node](http://nodejs.org/), in [CouchDB](http://couchdb.apache.org/)
views, or in almost any other environment where you can use JavaScript.

## Who uses mustache.js?

An updated list of mustache.js users is kept [on the Github wiki](http://wiki.github.com/janl/mustache.js/beard-competition).
Add yourself or your company if you use mustache.js!

## Usage

Below is quick example how to use mustache.js:

    var view = {
      title: "Joe",
      calc: function() {
        return 2 + 4;
      }
    };

    var html = Mustache.to_html("{{title}} spends {{calc}}", view);

In this example, the `Mustache.to_html` function takes two parameters: 1) the
[mustache](http://mustache.github.com/) template and 2) a `view` object that
contains the data and code needed to render the template.

  ### browserify

    var Mustache = require('mustache-for-chromeapps');

    var html = Mustache.to_html(...);


## Template Tag Types

There are several types of tags currently implemented in mustache.js.

### Simple Tags

Tags are always surrounded by mustaches like this `{{foobar}}`.

    var view = {name: "Joe", say_hello: function(){ return "hello" }}

    template = "{{say_hello}}, {{name}}"

#### Accessing values in nested objects (Dot Notation)

To access data logically grouped into nested objects, specify a '.' delimited
path to the value.

    var contact = {
      name: {first: "Bill", last: "Bobitybob" },
      age: 37
    }

    template = "Hello, {{name.first}} {{name.last}}. You are {{age}} years old."

*NOTICE*: The dot notation feature was recently implemented for the 0.4
  release, which is not out as of Nov 9 2011. You can find the feature in the
  current master branch of mustachejs.

### Conditional Sections

Conditional sections begin with `{{#condition}}` and end with
`{{/condition}}`. When `condition` evaluates to true, the section is rendered,
otherwise the whole block will output nothing at all. `condition` may be a
function returning true/false or a simple boolean.

    var view = {condition: function() {
      // [...your code goes here...]
      return true;
    }}

    {{#condition}}
      I will be visible if condition is true
    {{/condition}}


### Enumerable Sections

Enumerable Sections use the same syntax as condition sections do.
`{{#shopping_items}}` and `{{/shopping_items}}`. Actually the view decides how
mustache.js renders the section. If the view returns an array, it will
iterator over the items. Use `{{.}}` to access the current item inside the
enumeration section.

    var view = {name: "Joe's shopping card",
                items: ["bananas", "apples"]}

    var template = "{{name}}: <ul> {{#items}}<li>{{.}}</li>{{/items}} </ul>"

    Outputs:
    Joe's shopping card: <ul><li>bananas</li><li>apples</li></ul>


### Higher Order Sections

If a section key returns a function, it will be called and passed both the
unrendered block of text and a renderer convenience function.

Given this object:

    "name": "Tater",
    "bolder": function() {
      return function(text, render) {
        return "<b>" + render(text) + '</b>'
      }
    }

And this template:

    {{#bolder}}Hi {{name}}.{{/bolder}}

We'll get this output:

    <b>Hi Tater.</b>

As you can see, we’re pre-processing the text in the block. This can be used
to implement caching, filters (like syntax highlighting), etc.

You can use `this.name` to access the attribute `name` from your view.

### Dereferencing Sections

If your data has components that are logically grouped into nested objects,
you may wish to dereference an object to access its values.

Given this object:

    {
      "name": "Bill",
      "address": {
        "street": "801 Streetly street",
        "city": "Boston",
        "state": "MA",
        "zip" "02101"
      }
    }

And this template:

    <h1>Contact: {{name}}</h1>
    {{#address}}
      <p>{{street}}</p>
      <p>{{city}}, {{state}} {{zip}}</p>
    {{/address}}

We'll get this output:

    <h1>Contact: Bill</h1>
      <p>801 Streetly street</p>
      <p>Boston, MA 02101</p>

### Inverted Sections

An inverted section opens with `{{^section}}` instead of `{{#section}}` and
uses a boolean negative to evaluate. Empty arrays are considered falsy.

View:

    var inverted_section =  {
      "repo": []
    }

Template:

    {{#repo}}<b>{{name}}</b>{{/repo}}
    {{^repo}}No repos :({{/repo}}

Result:

    No repos :(


### View Partials

mustache.js supports a quite powerful but yet simple view partial mechanism.
Use the following syntax for partials: `{{>partial_name}}`

    var view = {
      name: "Joe",
      winnings: {
        value: 1000,
        taxed_value: function() {
            return this.value - (this.value * 0.4);
        }
      }
    };

    var template = "Welcome, {{name}}! {{>winnings}}"
    var partials = {
      winnings: "You just won ${{value}} (which is ${{taxed_value}} after tax)"};

    var output = Mustache.to_html(template, view, partials)

    output will be:
    Welcome, Joe! You just won $1000 (which is $600 after tax)

You invoke a partial with `{{>winnings}}`. Invoking the partial `winnings`
will tell mustache.js to look for a object in the context's property
`winnings`. It will then use that object as the context for the template found
in `partials` for `winnings`.

## Escaping

mustache.js does escape all values when using the standard double mustache
syntax. Characters which will be escaped: `& \ " ' < >`. To disable escaping,
simply use triple mustaches like `{{{unescaped_variable}}}`.

Example: Using `{{variable}}` inside a template for `5 > 2` will result in `5 &gt; 2`, where as the usage of `{{{variable}}}` will result in `5 > 2`.


## Streaming

To stream template results out of mustache.js, you can pass an optional
`send()` callback to the `to_html()` call:

    Mustache.to_html(template, view, partials, function(line) {
      print(line);
    });


## Pragmas

Pragma tags let you alter the behaviour of mustache.js. They have the format
of

    {{%PRAGMANAME}}

and they accept options:

    {{%PRAGMANAME option=value}}


### IMPLICIT-ITERATOR

When using a block to iterate over an enumerable (Array), mustache.js expects
an objects as enumerable items. The implicit iterator pragma enables optional
behaviour of allowing literals as enumerable items. Consider this view:

    var view = {
      foo: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, "french"]
    };

The following template can iterate over the member `foo`:

    {{%IMPLICIT-ITERATOR}}
    {{#foo}}
      {{.}}
    {{/foo}}

If you don't like the dot in there, the pragma accepts an option to set your
own iteration marker:

    {{%IMPLICIT-ITERATOR iterator=bob}}
    {{#foo}}
      {{bob}}
    {{/foo}}

## Plugins for JavaScript Libraries

mustache.js may be built specifically for several different client libraries
and platforms, including the following:

  - [node](http://nodejs.org/) (or other CommonJS platforms)
  - [jQuery](http://jquery.com/)
  - [Dojo](http://www.dojotoolkit.org/)
  - [YUI](http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/)
  - [RequireJS](http://requirejs.org/)
  - [qooxdoo](http://qooxdoo.org/)

These may be built using [Rake](http://rake.rubyforge.org/) and one of the
following commands:

    $ rake commonjs
    $ rake jquery
    $ rake dojo
    $ rake yui
    $ rake requirejs
    $ rake qooxdoo

## Thanks

Mustache.js wouldn't kick ass if it weren't for these fine souls:

  * Chris Wanstrath / defunkt
  * Alexander Lang / langalex
  * Sebastian Cohnen / tisba
  * J Chris Anderson / jchris
  * Tom Robinson / tlrobinson
  * Aaron Quint / quirkey
  * Douglas Crockford
  * Nikita Vasilyev / NV
  * Elise Wood / glytch
  * Damien Mathieu / dmathieu
  * Jakub Kuźma / qoobaa
  * Will Leinweber / will
  * dpree
  * Jason Smith / jhs
  * Aaron Gibralter / agibralter
  * Ross Boucher / boucher
  * Matt Sanford / mzsanford
  * Ben Cherry / bcherry
  * Michael Jackson / mjijackson
